Now, I want to show you
something interesting as it
pertains to state management.
Notice when I start typing
what's happening here.
How is this happening?
Well, pretty simple object is, or
JavaScript is object by reference and
so Pointing to the same object
in three different places.
Remember what I said about
shared mutable state.
Now, I want to be clear.
Shared state is okay.
Obviously I mean,
what do you think is happening here?
I'm sharing state.
Mutable state is okay of course,
you have to mutate state eventually,
you have to allow
the user to make updates.
Shared mutable state is the devil.
So what do you do about that?
How do you handle shared mutable state?
So already I've mutated this and
the question is,
how do I go back and undo this?
Well, thankfully,
I didn't save it to the server.
But that's where state mutations
are really, really bad.
And so what you do in this case, I'm going
to show you how to solve this problem or
one way, is if you had shared
mutable state,what you have to do
is make your shared
mutable state not shared.
You have to break that connection so it's
no longer shared that it's standalone.
And so how you do that?
Is inside of your course
details component.
I'm going to Move this down,
because we're gonna do some
a little bit of logic here.
I going to create Another
property called selected course.
And then, from here,
I'm going to set this as a setter.
So set, I'm doing this from memory so
hopefully this works.
And you want to say if value exists
then We are going to do something.
So as long as we are passing something in,
then we're going to do something.
And so here, we're gonna do this
selected course equals object.assign.
And we're going to create a clone of
the course object that we send in.
And so this is what object.assign is.
So I could kind of get into some
immutable operations for time will,
I'm going to defer that.
But what object.assign does is it says,
take from right to left and
start assigning values.
Or rather I think it
does from left to right.
It does it kind of in order, so
it actually be from left to right as it
assigns any non or
any innumerable values to the new objects.
We're saying take value and
assign it to this object.
And so in this case,
it's going to be a course.
Now if I wanted to add even
another property is, so
it does do it from left to right.
So left, left, left,
it's like it can say I want to
also set tittle to something else.
And so I can overwrite this.
It's sort of applying copying things over
from the left side to the right side.
And, I don't need this but what this does
is that it basically creates a clone
of this course object
that we're setting in.
Now what I'm also going to do is just for
the sake of
From a UX standpoint, so
we're still not modified a shared title.
I'm going to go this.original
title equals value.title.
All right.
And notice it's complaining that
I'm not implementing in JSON in it.
That's totally fine.
Let's save this and
I am really hoping that this works.
So TS let's throwing up let me save that.
Let's hop in and of course,
I forgot to update my template.
So we go into the course
details component.
We are no longer binding to course,
it's going to be selected course.
Now what I also want to do instead of the
title, we're gonna bind to original title.
Because even though I've created a copy,
even if this was selected course,
is I would start editing in the form and
it would still update there.
So I'm breaking all shared
kind of references.
So let me go here, Oops.
Okay, let me save this.
Hopefully this works.
There we go.
And I'll close this.
Now if I start editing this Then
notice it didn't edit it up here.
Also, when I cancel, what happens?
Well, it just takes and
it throws away my clone object like I
haven't mutated into so I can go cancel.
Nobody is the wiser, and so
isolating state mutations at the component
level is really, really important
because you saw how that trickled up.
And changing it here, and
it's changing it over here, which is bad.
And so
that's how you isolate state mutations.